# [Github Copilot and Productivity](https://github.blog/2022-09-07-research-quantifying-github-copilots-impact-on-developer-productivity-and-happiness/)

Github Copilot is an AI assistant for developers, with this article quantifying some effects on development of Copilot in order to see if it is doing well. They do this through a survey of more than 2,000 developers, with multiple rounds of research and both qualitative and quantitative data collected. Although the research may be biased in favor of copilot, as it was conducted by Github, a majority of users (60-70%) say that they are satisfied with it even in its early stage. In one study, the researchers split 95 developers into groups of copilot users and non-users to make an HTTP server in JavaScript. The people who completed the task finished it 55% faster using copilot than those who did not.

With results like this in such a short timespan of release, it begs the question on whether developers will eventually be replaced by AI programmers. Although in its current stage copilot allows developers to deal with the fun parts of a program rather than wade through the weeds, at what point will an AI be advanced enough to replace software engineers? And if that point comes, what other jobs would be replaced as well?

## Comment by John Kolibachuk

The results of the research was about what I would expect, with a large number of respondents expressing feeling more productive, faster, and less mentally drained, thanks to Copilot automating the writing of the repetitive stuff. But the idea of AI being capable of writing full software solutions doesn't seem too far fetched. If and or when this happens, I guess jobs will shift in the direction of specializing in creating, maintaining, and improving AI with respect to specific languages or disciplines.
